1)AWS Lambda is an ideal compute platform for many application scenarios, provided that you can write your application
code in languages supported by AWS Lambda (that is, Node.js, Java, Go and C# and Python), and run within the AWS Lambda
standard runtime environment and resources provided by Lambda.

Benefits of Aws Lamda:
1)AWS Lambda automatically runs your code without requiring you to provision or manage servers. Just write the code and
upload it to Lambda.
2)AWS Lambda automatically scales your application by running code in response to each trigger. Your code runs in
parallel and processes each trigger individually, scaling precisely with the size of the workload
3)With AWS Lambda, you are charged for every 100ms your code executes and the number of times your code is triggered.
You don't pay anything when your code isn't running.

1)Lamda is fully mangaed platform
2)we can run with out thinking about any servers
3)lamda is stateless

Lamda is completely automated adminstration.
lamda is high available and fault tolerance
Lamda scales up and down based on the requirements

Lamda suppor different languages
1)Node js
2)java
3)Python

Lamda support different platforms in aws
1)S3
2)Dynamo db
3)kinesis
4)Sns

Aws Lamda is Event-driven Fundamentals
1)Executes the code when it triggered by event
2)Lets us fine-tune Permissions
3)Completely automated

AWS lamda Event sources
1)publish the events that invoke lamda Function'
2)Lamda keep track by event source Mapping
3)Lamda executes the code by passing the event into handler

Aws lamda Event sources
1)Aws sns
2)Aws s3
3)aws kinesis
4)aws ses
5)aws dynamo db
6)aws cognito
7)cloud watch logs
8)cloud formation

Aws lamda event models
1)push
Event source Invoke lamda function
used by s3,sns,cognito,amazon echo
Event source mapping held in event source not lamda

2)pull
aws lamda polls the event source
invoke lamda fucntion if there is a new event
used by kinesis and dynamodb
event source mapping held in Lamda


Aws lamda push Example

for example used upload file into s3 Then s3 recieves an event and invoke Lamda function.
The lamda compress the file and Save it.

Aws lamda pull example

Aws lamda polls the kinesis stream and detect the record
aws lamda invoke lamda function
lamda fucntion process records.

Aws lamda permissions:
private by default.
Event which invoke lamda function must have a permission

Permission for services
push model-event source need permision to invoke
pullmodel- lamda need permision to to poll

Aws lamda invocation function:
Event:
Executes event asynchronously
used by dynamodb,kinesis,s3
doesnot need to send response

request response
Executes the function synchronously
used by http calls aws console
sends a response

Dry run
pramater available with invoke API
test acess and inputs

